### Thoughts about the snapps bootcamp

#### What I would have done differenly

I picked a game including strings and many players, thinking that it would be more fun than a simple game like tic tac toe. In retrospect, I spent precious time thinking about game logic, rather than exploring the toolset. I also wasted a bunch of time on trying to deserialize strings in an effort to be able to recreate an abandoned game from on-chain state. But a) I didn't have the background in bit manipulation I needed to do that within the time parameters and b) it's just not required functionality for a demo.

On that note, I wish I had put a little more time into picking a project. The first 2 ideas I had were this one, and the classic shell game. Both games are simply commit-reveal though. This could be done in solidity, and many other environments. It would have been cool to pick something truly unique to snapps. I guess the difference is that on ethereum, at the end of the round, each player would reveal their guesses publicly to prove their commit, whereas in this context, the score is calculated without any player knowing another player's guess, but that doesn't seem rrelevant to the fundamentals of the game.

#### Feedback on the event

I'm really excited about snapps, but I don't have a background in cryptography. I can easily see how adding TLS to proofs will be next-level for blockchain interoperability, but I don't have a touchstone for what ZK will be used for or how it will work. I think seeing some of the demos that O(1) staff have put together was great, but I would have loved to be able to review that ahead of time, so I had more time to soak it in before hacking out a copy. After the last couple days, I feel like I somewhat understand what a "Field" is, but I have no idea about the other cryto primitives that are provided by snarky js. I would have liked if part of the bootcamp involved going through the toolbox and explaining what each tool does.

I got some wonky errors along the way. I got help in discord which was awesome, but obviously error understandability is always nice to have. The 2 I am thinking of is one where I did not initialize my snapp with 1 mina, so when I tried to update the state on it, I got a `getAccount: Could not find account` error. I suppose that the error might have surfaced in the mina transaction in which I deployed the contract, and I just didn't catch errors? But also, if a contract must receive 1 mina, then maybe that should just be built into the smart contract requirements in addition to a public key. Getting the error later down the line was confusing, and I had no idea how to watch traffic on my mina local network. Compared to ethereum dev, I would be able to see a failed transaction or nothing come through when I expected a transaction. The other error was related to the `Field.toString()` bug which apparently came up during office hours. I had that issue as well, and it affected my `assertEquals` calls. If I tried to reference a state field at all I got `"Can't evaluate prover code outside an as_prover block"`. Wrapping the code in an `as_prover` block fixed the issue, so I don't even know if this was a bug as much as I just didn't know when this was needed and when not, which goes back to not being familiar with the toolbox.

####

Overall, I am honored to be a part of this inaugural bootcamp session. I'm really interested to see how snarky js evolves, especially with support for strings and TLS data, and deployment on an actual p2p net. I'm still working on wrapping my head around the paradigm of centralized smart contract hosting and execution, but decentralized state transitions. In theory, it seems like this enables much faster, cheaper apps. But I also wonder about scale and censorship. It seems like we will need to incentivize people to host copies of popular snapps or something to do some load balancing, but then maybe certain snapp devs will want to be the sole operators of a particular snapp because it requires sensitive inputs. It all seems very fresh and exciting. If I have contributed to the future of mina by paricipating in this bootcamp, then I'm happy.
